To illustrate the professional practice with the business phone the different steps within the app are described in more detail.

First, to use the MediFox app the caregivers have to log in with their account.

Afterwards they can choose between several menu options like ‘tasks’, ‘shifts’, ‘handover report’, and ‘messages’.

Thereby the option ‘tasks’ is unused entirely and the messaging system is ignored in favor of direct phone calls with a care manager in case questions arise on site.

In contrast, the options ‘handover report’ and ‘shifts’ are used daily after manually synchronizing the app after the login.

Second, to start their worktime caregivers have to start their shift via a green button at the bottom screen.

Then they have ten minutes to prepare the tour and, for example, pack necessary medicines and keys.

In a third step, they can start their tour by clicking again on a green button.

Thereupon the assignments planned for the shift are displayed with the most important information in chronological order.

By clicking on the patient’s assignment all information about the services, medication, previous vital signs, and the nursing process are accessible.

By arriving at the patient’s apartment, a fourth step is performed to record the actual care time.
To start the minute-based recording a green button in the app is pushed again.

While performing the care work the caregivers have to check off all services provided separately.

As mentioned earlier caregivers can add services if needed due to preplacement, modification or urgent assistance.
However, this never happened during the field stay.

Instead, caregivers used the note function, so that the office workers can then classify the performed services accordingly.

The reason mentioned by caregivers was that they are not very familiar with the legal requirements and numbers assigned.

Fifth, once everything has been done at the patient’s home, the recording is manually stopped via a red button at the bottom screen.
Same applies to end the tour and the shift.




